All right.
So we have one typescript violation remaining in our GETTERS file, and it is a very funny and peculiar
one because it presents what I would call a chicken or the egg problem.
So notice that TypeScript wants a type definition for this getters argument, which is the second argument
for our filter jobs getter method.
In fact, that's the way it always works.
If we provide a second argument to a getter method, what Vue X will provide is always going to be the
same object of getters that we are in.
And that kind of presents a problem because we have a little bit of a circular dependency.
So what I mean by that is imagine we try to define the type for this getters object.
Imagine we try to define and explain to TypeScript that we have an object with five methods.
The methods are unique organizations, unique job types, etc. If we were defining that those methods,
we'd also have to define the types of their parameters.
So when we get to filter jobs, we'd say, Well, getters is an object that is basically the object
that we are in.
It is this object with these exact five methods.
But in order to do that, we have to have that object with its five methods defined.
But we can't do that because in order to define the fifth method filter jobs we already need, the getters
object to already exist with its types.
Right.
So getters needs this method to have its types defined to be able to use it.
But in order for this method to have this type defined, we need to reference the actual getter object
we are in.
Right.
And we cannot do that.
So it kind of is an interesting dependency because this depends on the object and the object, or at
least that's type definition depends on this method.
So I got into a really, really bad place over thinking how to solve this problem and thinking if there
was some kind of type that I was missing from the View Library and how I could solve this.
And then I realized, why don't I just go for the super simple and the easiest solution that I could
come up with?
And so I said, Why don't I just use the basic features of TypeScript?
Why don't I declare an interface in this file?
And my interface will describe an object.
And that object will have the getter methods that I care about.
Do I really need to define the types for all five of my getter methods?
Well, for the sake of this parameter right here, I argue we don't need to.
All we need to have is an object that has two properties.
One is going to be an include job by organization method that accepts a job object.
And the second is going to be a method that that is called include job by job type that also accepts
a job object.
And if both of those methods are returned, Booleans and I capture both of those method definitions
in a object type definition that will be enough for this parameter to have an appropriate type for it
that TypeScript can decipher.
So let me show you what I did here.
Right here.
I declared an interface.
And as a reminder, whenever we do an interface, we have to give it a name.
And I called my interface include job getters because I don't want it to really represent all my getters,
just the ones that have to deal with, including a job.
And then I knew if I want to use this interface right here for this getters parameter, I have to make
sure that I tell TypeScript that the object called Getters right here is going to have these two properties,
which are going to be methods.
So the way we can define a method and it's type definitions in an interface is we simply write the name
out and then provide the types of the parameters and the return type.
And it looks like this inside this object that is going to be of type include job getters.
I'm going to have a method called include job by organization.
That's going to be my method name.
Then I'm going to provide a colon and then I'm going to provide its parameters as well as its return
value.
So we know that this getter is going to receive a job.
And we have our job interface imported above.
So it's going to be a job object.
And then what is this going to return to me?
It's going to return a boolean.
And the way I actually signify this in an interface is by using the arrow syntax right here, not the
colon, and specifying that this is going to return a Boolean value.
All right.
So the syntax here is a little bit new to us, but it hopefully makes sense.
We're saying that the object of type include job getters is going to include and include job by organization
method.
That method accepts a single parameter called job, which is a type job, and the return value of that
method is going to be a boolean.
Now a little point of confusion is you might be looking at include job by organization here and saying,
hey, that doesn't match this signature right here isn't include job by organization, a method that
actually accepts this state as the first parameter and then returns a function that accepts job as the
first parameter.
And you would be correct.
But remember, behind the scenes view, Vue automatically gives us the state and automatically invokes
the getter with the state as the first argument.
And if that getter method returns a function, it provides the function automatically.
That's why right here we can simply call include job by organization on my getters object and we never
have to provide state at all.
So View X knows whenever we're referencing the include job by organization getter.
We're not just referencing this function right here because it will take care of the first function
and passing state.
What we're really referencing is this function right here that that original method returns.
And that's what I'm referencing right here.
All right.
Same rules are going to apply for my other method.
So in order for this to be a valid interface to apply to my getters parameter here, I'm going to be
using a method called include job by job type on this getters object.
So this interface that I'm going to apply later must have my include job by job type method.
That's going to be a method that accepts a single parameter called job and it's going to be a type job
and it's also going to return a volume.
And these are the only two methods I need to exist in order for filter jobs to be able to run.
I could define these type definitions for my other getters, but there's really no need to do so because
this is all I need to be able to provide a type definition here.
So for getters, I'm going to say that's going to be an object and the interface or in other words,
the object type that it promises to fulfill is going to be my include job getters definition above.
So all I'm saying to TypeScript is getters is going to be an object that's going to have two methods
and those methods will accept job as an argument and both will return booleans and that is going to
match what we're going for here.
So you can see it's going to understand that it's going to be a method that accepts a job, returns
boolean, which is a totally valid value to return for a filter method on an array.
So now you can see if I look at the entire definition and I look at filter at filter jobs, it understands
that it accepts state, which is the global state interface, it accepts getters which is going to match
our include job getters interface.
And because it properly understands that we're invoking filter on an array of jobs, it's going to understand
that the final return value of the filter jobs getter is going to be a job array.
So we could manually specify in line that it's going to be a job array, but TypeScript has correctly
inferred the proper return value and the same thing is true for all of our other getters.
You can see include job above is going to properly be a function that returns boolean and unique organizations
and unique job types are both going to return sets consisting of strings.
So all of our types look correct here with TypeScript inferring the proper return values.
So I see no need right now to explicitly add those return value types manually in our code.
All right, so now our getters file is looking pretty good.
I can save that.
And in the next lesson, we can move on to updating the corresponding test file for our getters.
I'll see you there.